
FTP: file transfer protocol. a native protocol to all host operating
systems and used for a long time for simple file transfer tasks, be they automated or manual.

 FTP can be used to transfer log files from one network device to another or a log
collection server

In a few words: The File Transfer Protocol (FTP) is a standard communication protocol used to transfer
computer files from a server to a client on a computer network. FTP is built on a
client–server model architecture using separate control and data connections between
the client and the server. FTP users may authenticate themselves with a clear-text
sign-in protocol, generally in the form of a username and password. However, they can
connect anonymously if the server is configured to allow it. For secure transmission
that protects the username and password and encrypts the content, FTP is often secured
with SSL/TLS (FTPS) or replaced with SSH File Transfer Protocol (SFTP).

client-server model architecture: This
refers to the roles hosts in the network have during the act of transferring data between them. Users can
download and upload files from the client (their own host) to the server (a centralized data storage device)
or vice versa.

It is considered non-standard for FTP to be used without the encryption layer
provided by protocols such as SSL/TLS (FTPS) or SSH-tunneling (SFTP). FTP by itself does have the ability to
require credentials before allowing access to the stored files

This makes it volnrable to man in the middle attacks.
To prevent this, the networtk administrator can wrap the connection with the SSL/TLS protocol or tunnel
the FTP connection through SSH to add a layer of encryption that only the source and
destination hosts can decrypt, this would successfully foil most Man-in-the-Middle attacks.


//Starting the hack

if we want to see the verison that the ftp sever is running, 
we can use sudo nmap -sV (ip target)

In order to access  the FTP server, we use the ftp command on our end.

To connect to our FTP target, we do : ftp (target ip). This
will initiate a request to authenticate on the FTP service running on the target, which will return a prompt
back to our host:

A typical misconfiguration for running FTP services allows an anonymous account to access the service like
any other authenticated user. The anonymous username can be input when the prompt appears, followed
by any password whatsoever since the service will disregard the password for this specific account.

flag: 035db21c881520061c53e0536e44f815

//END