FTP(File Transfer Protocol) is old and slow protocol. It only allows copying entire files over the network from a remote server. 

 In many cases there is a need to
transfer only some changes made to a few files and not to transfer every file every single time. For these
scenarios, the rsync protocol is generally preferred.

Rsync is a fast and extraordinarily versatile file copying tool. It can copy locally,
to/from another host over any remote shell, or to/from a remote rsync daemon. It offers
a large number of options that control every aspect of its behavior and permit very
flexible specification of the set of files to be copied. It is famous for its deltatransfer algorithm, which reduces the amount of data sent over the network by sending
only the differences between the source files and the existing files in the
destination. Rsync is widely used for backups and mirroring and as an improved copy
command for everyday use.

The main stages of an rsync transfer are the following:
1. rsync establishes a connection to the remote host and spawns another rsync receiver process.
2. The sender and receiver processes compare what files have changed.
3. What has changed gets updated on the remote host.

We can use rsync like so: rsync [OPTION] … [USER@]HOST::SRC [DEST]

where SRC is the file or directory (or a list of multiple files and directories) to copy from, DEST is the file or
directory to copy to.

The [OPTION] portion of the syntax, refers to the available options in rsync .

The [USER@] optional parameter is used when we want to access the the remote machine in an
authenticated way.

 In our first attempt, we will try to list all the available directroeis using : rsync --list-only (target ip)::

We can get the list of directories inside the public like so: rsync --list-only (target ip)::public

We notice a file called flag.txt inside the public share. Our last step is to copy/sync this file to our local
machine. To do that, we simply follow the general syntax by specifying the SRC as public/flag.txt and
the DEST as flag.txt to transfer the file to our local machine.

We can copy the flat.txt file to our computer by doing : rsync (target ip)::public/flag.txt flag.txt

